# Project Outline
For this assignment, you will submit a high-level outline of your project. This can, and likely will, change over time. In particular, your mentor will provide direction and feedback to help sharpen your ideas. So don't worry if you feel unsure about some aspects of the outline or if you have to change some things later.

## Assignment Description
[Project Outline Assignment](https://education.launchcode.org/liftoff/modules/assignments/project-outline)

## Submission Instructions

### Overview
Like many Americans, I believe that our democracy is in peril. The internet has changed our world and our future in incoprehensibly positive ways. It has also evolved much faster than consumers' and governments' ability to understand the implications it would have on our personal information and how it could be used in ways that are not in the collective interests of a democratic nation. Most notably for the context of this project, personally catered advertisements are of great benefit to consumers and our economy. They can, however, also be used for much more nefarious means. More and more, the media that we expose ourselves to (and that which we are exposed to) is shaping our world view. Humans are extremely prone to manipulation and psychological warfare. History is riddled with poingnant examples of how the personal adgendas of a few actors can inflict incredible damage on societies, families, and individuals. The Nazi movement, so with hundreds of cults, and more modern examples like ISIS and the Neo-Nazi movement, rely heavily on targetting suceptible individuals for their campaigns. And it works. The most modernt testament to this quagmire of brainwashing is the use of data in political campaigns that can cater issues, sentiments, policies, and adgendas to unbelievably nuanced levels based on hyper-individualized preferences. And our technology leaders have done little to thwart these malicious efforts. We are witnessing the inception of the first real psycological cyber warfare efforts now. Psycological manipulation exhibits a snowball effect on the individual and society writ large. Many of humanity's most iminent threats stem from these manipulative adgendas. And the effectiveness of their arsenal of tools is further subject to exponential growth of data, algorithms, computing power, and lack of regulation. It's up to each and every individual consumer to determine the credibility, adgena, and truthfulness of the content they are handed on a siver platter, which is derived from human-made algorithms which use their personal preferences calculated by gobs of their personal data. While it's said that our brains are the most complext object in the known universe, these organic processors did not evolve to consume, process, and interpret the amount of information foist upon us each an every day. But we are Humans, the use of tools is our single most defining super power which empowers us to conquer planets. Yet, we do not posess a utility belt for this problem. Yet. 

Tackling this issue would be far outside the scope of a small project such as this. So how can we make the biggest dent with the short amount of time available? We need a simple tool that wields great power. Assumingly, we will continue to be force fed subjective content disguised as fair and balanced, so is there a way to process that information in a truly objective way? How do we know what is true? Biased? Credible? It would be nice to have a single "lense" that could point these things out. Reddit, the front page of the internet, has attempted to do just this by providing avenues for collective user feedback. But upvotes and downvotes is a clunky tool to use for such a complicated problem. It behooves us to enable much more nuanced feedback than whether people like or agree with a particular media. A handful of studies have demonstrated that groups harness a collective intelligence that can increase accuracy of predictions, creativity in problem solving, and speed and efficiency in solving novel problems. Perhaps Reddit had the right idea, but botched the implementation. When I read an article, I want to know when a sentence is misleading, or untrue, or if the perspective of the article has a bias, and if so, what are the counter arguments. I don't want to have to spend all day researching the contents of a single article. But some people do... And they will be the arbiters of truth. With the wind at their backs, they can assemble a wikipedia-like effectiveness to summarizing quality content in a transparent and accessible way. I'm less interested in upvotes, and more interested in insightfulness, quality, accuracy, truthfulness, objectivity, and transparency. We tend to seek out the same watering hole each time we're thirsty. That is the place which we are familiar, comfortable, and seemingly safe. If We have the opportunity to pull our loved ones out from the cults of media and news, we must show them that saftey lies in transparency. It's there that true democratic outcomes manifest. 

### Features
Search and sort: Users will be able to search for articles on a given topic, or sort the list of articles on a homepage by categories they are rated on and categories they are classified as. 
Proof read: A reader will be able to proof-read each article. If a senence, quote, or reference is questionable, they will be able to conduct their own research and add references to substantiate or debunk a particular statement within an article. They can add comments and rate that particular statement. 
Rate and categorize content: At the end of each article, users will have the ability to rate, from 0 to 10, the article as a whole on categories that pertain to the credibility, factualness, opinionatedness, bias, etc. Eventually, categories can be created by users. They will categorize the topics of the articles as well. 
Analytics: Each article on the site will have a collection of these data points that will be aggregated into scores. Additionally, the statements that have been highlighted by users the most will be color coded and the top comments will be accessible. A later generation of this feature will be capable of predicting these metrics and summarizing the article, as well as summarizing the user comments of an article. 
Author and Source ratings: eventually, enough data will have been collected on the articles that the ratings and categories can be used to rate individual authors on their content. This will be avilable to users for added transparency on the bias and opinionatedness of the authors and sources. Their reputations as credible, factual, etc. will be on display for the world to see. 
User Profiles and Gamification: Users of the site will have an incentive to proof read articles by gamifying the site so they are rewarded with tokens and reputation for quality feedback. 
Over time, we will collect enough data to use machine learning algorithms to better predict the categories of each article. Eventually, it will be essential that machines can predict the credibility, bias, and opinionatedness of articles that are posted on the internet. This will be a powerful tool for combating, trolls, tyrants, cults, and cyber warfare as a whole. 

### Technologies
PHP MyAdmin: Used for database management. We will store averything pertinant to the website except for the contents of the articles themselves.
RaspberryPi: this will be used to store the database
Springboot: this will streamline communication with the backend.
Java: this will be used for server-side programming
Java Script: This will be the language used for updating the webpage, front-end functionality, and the browser. 
Python: this will be used for all data processing and analytics. 

### What I'll Have to Learn
I'll need to learn how to configure a Raspberry Pi to be used for a database. 
I will need to learn enough Java Script to get this site operational. 
This may ultimately be a browser plugin that "lays over" the browser. 

### Project Tracker
https://trello.com/b/Gv50cxZ5/liftoff
